Developer Spotlight: nym21, Bitcoin Research Kit (#884)
OpenSats/website: data/blog/developer-spotlight-nym21-bitcoin-research-kit.mdx

draft: false
summary: "nym21 built free Bitcoin analytics out of spite, and made them so good that the professionals who charge for the same data quietly started using his."
pullQuotes:
  - "Partly out of spite, I made it my quest to offer as much on-chain data as I could to as many people as possible, for free, forever."
  - "I've always believed that if something can be free, it should be."
  - "I was left wondering why this was not already built, and how it could be so expensive. Ended up with the conclusion that the latter was mainly due to greed."
  - "I sincerely hope that I'll be able to gradually find and move towards other sources of funding, and eventually give back to OpenSats"
---

> Partly out of spite, I made it my quest to offer as much on-chain data as I
> could to as many people as possible, for free, forever.

That is nym21, a pseudonymous developer and OpenSats grantee describing why the
[Bitcoin Research Kit][brk] (BRK) exists.

The spite was for companies like [Glassnode][glassnode], which charges from \$99 a
month to \$11,200 a year for institutional-grade Bitcoin data, among other things.

> nym21 gives the same data away for free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nym21 gives away as much of that data as he can, for free.
```

He self-hosts it from a base-model Mac mini he calls "the best bang for your buck
server," with an external drive bolted on for storage. It's been answering
requests, without a crash, for months. He runs it from his own desk rather than a
data center on purpose: he wanted the same experience a self-hoster would have,

> the same rough edges, so the thing would actually be good to run at home.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He self-hosts it from two base-model Mac minis, for redundancy, the machine he
calls "the best bang for your buck server," each with an external drive bolted on
for storage. They've been answering requests, without a crash, for months. He runs
one from a TV stand at home and the other from a relative's office rather than a
data center on purpose: he wanted the same experience a self-hoster would have,
the same rough edges, so the thing would actually be good to run at home.
```

For all the internet knows, nym21 is the [tardigrade][tardigrade] he uses for an avatar, a more

> apt self-portrait than he probably intended. (You'll see why; keep on reading.)

Reviewer 2: i would delete "(You'll see why; keep on reading.)"

> Before getting to how a cheap consumer box does the work of a data center, or why

Reviewer 2: A bit easier to read when "_to_" is replaced by "_into_"
"Before getting **into** how..."

selling?" has a real answer sitting in that data, but getting it means parsing the
whole chain and doing the arithmetic each time the next block is found.

<Image
  src="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/drawing.png"
  alt="From the public ledger to the answer: read the blocks, do the arithmetic"
  width={2022}
  height={390}
  className="w-full h-auto"
/>

Glassnode, which did as much as anyone to turn on-chain analysis into a paid
product, built that machinery once, charged for the answers, and called it just
good business. It's just the most visible of a crowded field, every one of them
fencing the same public data behind a login, a subscription, or a house view on
what's worth showing. None of it, nym21 bet, needed a data center. Only a spare
computer.

There was one piece everyone assumed had to come from outside: the price. The
chain knows when coins move, not what they're worth, so every analytics tool needs
to pull its prices from an exchange. nym21 didn't want to depend on anyone.

He stumbled on a thing called Simple Steve's price oracle, the proof that
Bitcoin's dollar price could be inferred from the chain itself, then spent two

> weeks hunting for a cleaner method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weeks hunting for a way to compute an accurate price for every single block.
```

He found one. The method itself is almost embarrassingly simple. People are

> forever sending round dollar amounts of bitcoin (fifty dollars' worth, a hundred),

Reviewer 2: i would delete "(fifty dollars' worth, a hundred)"

and every one of those payments is written into the public ledger. Gather enough
of them and the day's price comes into view. It only works once a lot of people
are transacting, so it starts in 2018, at block 525,000, and from there it sits
within a few percent of the exchange price almost every day. Bitcoin's early years
were too quiet to read this way, so those prices, back to 2009, he just filled in

> by hand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are transacting, so it starts in January 2015, at block 340,000, and from there it
sits within a few percent of the exchange price almost every day. (Until a few
weeks ago it started in 2018; then he saw Steve reaching for 2016. "I had to do
better!") Bitcoin's early years were too quiet to read this way, so those prices,
back to 2009, he just filled in by hand.
```

<BrowserFrame url="https://bitview.space">
  <Image
    src="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/genesis-light.png"
    darkSrc="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/genesis-dark.png"
    alt="The Bitview explorer showing Bitcoin's genesis block"
    width={1920}
    height={1092}
    className="w-full h-auto"
  />
</BrowserFrame>

Because the chain is identical for everyone, anyone can verify these prices
independently, and since the data lives on-chain, the only external input BRK
still requires is the blocks themselves, which he notes can even be received via a
Blockstream satellite.

> It honestly felt like a discovery.

All that parsing and arithmetic produces something you can look at: thousands of

> charts, every one computed from the raw chain on that single Mac mini.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
charts, every one computed from the raw chain on a single Mac mini.
```

the look and feel of his desktop from the config files up, swapping window
managers, theming every bar and font and keybind, writing his own bash scripts to
do it, and open-sourcing the lot. "Probably the most fun I've had programming to
this day," he says.

<Image
  src="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/linux-rice.png"
  alt="nym21's riced Arch Linux desktop"
  width={1366}
  height={768}
  className="w-full h-auto"
/>

He moved to macOS eventually, after one too many updates broke something he
needed, and says he missed nothing about Linux except exactly that. The fun. (He'd
been through the same thing with mechanical keyboards, open-sourcing the designs
and firmware: "great experience," he says, "absolutely terrible for your wallet.")

Bitcoin itself took a while to land. What finally did it was an analogy: he started
thinking of it as "the Linux of money," and by his own cheerful admission has been
"in the Bitcoin cult ever since."

He'd earned the conversion the hard way. He came to crypto in 2020, at the bottom
of the Covid crash, decided Bitcoin was "grandpa coin" and too expensive, and put
\$100 into alternative coins like EOS and TRX because a subreddit told him to.

> (Classic.) It went so well that he got greedy, believed the \$100k meme a little too

Reviewer 2: i'd delete "(Classic.)"

hard, and ended up neck-deep in leveraged BTC and ETH futures that blew up in late
2021. The lesson arrived in the format every Bitcoiner eventually gets: stay
humble, stack sats.

What he kept from all of it was a conviction that would harden into the project:

> I've always believed that if something can be free, it should be. Just as using
> Bitcoin is a right and is free, access to its data should also be free, not gated
> behind entities that treat it as an advanced, proprietary service. In reality,
> it's just parsing and arithmetic.

It started, like most of his projects, with an itch. He was building himself a
portfolio tracker and wanted to add investment strategies. That work pulled him
down into on-chain indicators, a concept he first came across watching explainer
videos on Glassnode, narrated, as it happened, by an analyst named James Check.

> (Remember him.)

Reviewer 2: here is the only parentheses that I would keep

> I was left wondering why this was not already built, and how it could be so
> expensive. Ended up with the conclusion that the latter was mainly due to greed.

---

The first public version went out as satonomics, short for "satoshi economics." He
renamed it kibō, Japanese for hope, which was the most hopeful thing about the
project. He'd later swap it for the plainer Bitcoin Research Kit and wrote kibō off
as "too generic."

Building a thing out of irritation and giving it away for free might be the most
honest description of open-source work anyone has offered.

For a few years the project was just nym21, funding it himself, known to almost
nobody. In 2024 he put up a Geyser crowdfunding page to buy the server that would
run it. Then James Check found the page.

Yes, that James Check: the one whose Glassnode videos had taught nym21 the subject
in the first place. Check didn't know him from anyone. "He somehow got aware of
it," nym21 says, "and helped get it to the finish line."

By his own account, nym21 thanked Check on Nostr, and that thank-you turned into a
running conversation. Over the next two years Check went from donor to self-hoster

> to running CheckOnChain, his own widely-read analytics service, entirely on BRK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to running the entire on-chain side of CheckOnChain, his own widely-read analytics
service, from his own instance of BRK.
```

Before long it wasn't just Check. CryptoVizArt, an analyst at Glassnode itself,
came to nym21 wanting a chart Glassnode didn't offer: every coin sorted by how long

> since it last moved, priced at the moment it did.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before long it wasn't just Check. CryptoVizArt, the lead research analyst at
Glassnode itself, saw a dataset BRK had just released (every coin sorted by the
price at which it last moved) and came to nym21 curious, for his own research,
whether it could be cut finer: the same picture, broken out by how old the coins
are, a view even Glassnode doesn't offer yet.
```

nym21 assumed it would be expensive to compute and store. It wasn't. "The
computation was essentially free," he says, "and storing it, thanks to the
age-band structure, was practically free too, under a gigabyte." Glassnode's own

> analyst had started reaching for the free tool when the paid one came up short.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nym21's first instinct was that it would be expensive to compute and store. It
wasn't; the pieces were already there. "The computation was essentially free," he
says, "and storing it, thanks to the age-band structure, was practically free too,
under a gigabyte." That last part matters: everything has to fit on a consumer
machine, so each new dataset is a running trade-off against ease of hosting, a bit
like Bitcoin itself. Glassnode's own lead analyst had started reaching for the
free tool when the paid one came up short.
```

got caught using it.

In the spring of 2026, nym21 noticed that newhedge, a slick paid analytics
platform, was publishing charts that looked an awful lot like his. He could be
certain because of the price oracle: BRK computes prices in its own way, so a chart
built on its data carries a fingerprint, and "it's not possible to have the same
result" by accident. He said so in public, tagging the company.

Newhedge's Alon Shvartsman replied within the half hour. "You're right, we should
have credited BRK," he wrote. "We started using it recently and absolutely love
it... happy to support/sponsor the project, let's talk!" nym21 was not entirely
mollified.

> already found 2 more charts from your latest update but I'll stop here it's 'bad'
> enough Very glad you love it and you can use it, it is MIT after all, just a shame
> you had to be caught red-handed to talk about it but sure let's talk

Then Shvartsman came clean on the scale of it: newhedge was using BRK as a source
across "30–40 charts."

That's thirty to forty. Note that it's just one pseudonymous developer's free tool,
quietly powering that many charts on a paid product, and the credit only arrived

> because the credit got demanded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The clearest proof that BRK had become infrastructure, though, came when a paid
analytics platform turned out to be running on it.

In the spring of 2026, nym21 noticed that Newhedge, a slick paid analytics
platform, was publishing charts that looked an awful lot like his. He could be
certain because of the price oracle: BRK computes prices in its own way, so a chart
built on its data carries a fingerprint, and "it's not possible to have the same
result" by accident. He said so in public, tagging the company.

Newhedge's Alon Shvartsman replied within the half hour. "You're right, we should
have credited BRK," he wrote. "We started using it recently and absolutely love
it... happy to support/sponsor the project, let's talk!" nym21 was not entirely
mollified: he'd already spotted more charts, and said so, disappointed that the
attribution only arrived after the issue was raised in public.

Then Shvartsman put a number on it: Newhedge was using BRK as a source across
"30–40 charts."

That's thirty to forty. One pseudonymous developer's free tool, quietly powering
that many charts on a paid product. That's the other side of an MIT license:
anyone can use the work, build on it, even build a business on it, and most will
never ask permission, or contribute anything back.

What began as a public dispute ended somewhere better. Newhedge added attribution
across its charts immediately, and Shvartsman followed through on the support soon
after. The two have been on good terms since, helping each other improve their
respective projects; a few months later, Shvartsman would even write a reference
letter backing one of nym21's grant applications.
```

  />
</a>

There's an irony humming under all of this. As the rest of Bitcoin came to depend
on BRK, nym21 was spending most of his energy making sure BRK depended on nothing.

---

"Limiting the use of dependencies has been an on-going quest of mine," he says, and
he means it almost literally. The hardest one to shake was the price itself: he'd
been burned when Coingecko changed its terms under him, and again when exchanges
rewrote their APIs. The oracle from earlier was the finish line of that fight: once
price could be computed from the chain itself, he never had to ask an exchange for
anything again.

The rest he removed the same way. He keeps the whole thing speaking plain HTTP, so
it runs behind anything, on anyone's hardware, offline if it has to.

He prunes the Rust crates he leans on as aggressively as he can, wary of the
supply-chain surprises that come from trusting too much code you didn't write, a
bet that looks smarter every month another npm package turns out to be malware or
AI slop.

He treats efficiency the same way. A full mempool.space instance, he found, can eat
around 250% of the blockchain's own size. "I took it as a challenge," he says, and

> got BRK's equivalent down to roughly 45%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
got BRK's equivalent down to roughly 45%.

And that equivalent is no toy: BRK reimplements the mempool.space APIs wholesale,
answers millions of requests through them every month, and has made its way into
Sparrow, one of Bitcoin's most respected wallets, with Cove possibly next. He
counts it among the highlights of the whole project.
```

can't shake.

What comes after BRK is already drawn up, and has been for the better part of a
decade. It's a game: online, competitive, something like a more hardcore Towerfall,
running on a Bitcoin economy. He works on it a few days at a time, once or twice a
year, on purpose, so it can't pull him off BRK.

Which brings us back to the tardigrade. nym21 built BRK the way that animal lives:
on almost nothing, beholden to no one, and hard to kill. Cut its power, its
internet, even its author, and a copy still boots back up on someone else's machine
with two commands and a node.

So when he talks about stepping back, it isn't fatigue. It's a plan. What he wants
instead is simple:

> I sincerely hope that I'll be able to gradually find and move towards other
> sources of funding, donations and sponsorships, and eventually give back to
> OpenSats and free my 'seat' to another motivated developer with great ideas but
> no funding.

---

nym21 has been an OpenSats grantee since December 2024. The grant lets him work on
the [Bitcoin Research Kit][brk] full-time and keep it free to use, verify, and
self-host. If you want to support nym21, tell someone the project exists. (Just

> remember to credit him for the work; looking at you newhedge!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remember to credit him for the work.)
```

draft: false
summary: "nym21 built free Bitcoin analytics out of spite, and made them so good that the professionals who charge for the same data quietly started using his."
pullQuotes:
  - "Partly out of spite, I made it my quest to offer as much on-chain data as I could to as many people as possible, for free, forever."
  - "I've always believed that if something can be free, it should be."
  - "I was left wondering why this was not already built, and how it could be so expensive. Ended up with the conclusion that the latter was mainly due to greed."
  - "I sincerely hope that I'll be able to gradually find and move towards other sources of funding, and eventually give back to OpenSats"
---

> Partly out of spite, I made it my quest to offer as much on-chain data as I
> could to as many people as possible, for free, forever.

That is nym21, a pseudonymous developer and OpenSats grantee describing why the
[Bitcoin Research Kit][brk] (BRK) exists.

The spite was for companies like [Glassnode][glassnode], which charges from \$99 a
month to \$11,200 a year for institutional-grade Bitcoin data, among other things.
nym21 gives away as much of that data as he can, for free.

> He self-hosts it from two base-model Mac minis, for redundancy, the machine he

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
He self-hosts it from two base-model Mac minis, the machine he
```

calls "the best bang for your buck server," each with an external drive bolted on
for storage. They've been answering requests, without a crash, for months. He runs
one from a TV stand at home and the other from a relative's office rather than a
data center on purpose: he wanted the same experience a self-hoster would have,
the same rough edges, so the thing would actually be good to run at home.

For all the internet knows, nym21 is the [tardigrade][tardigrade] he uses for an avatar, a more

> apt self-portrait than he probably intended. (You'll see why; keep on reading.)

Author: ```suggestion
apt self-portrait than he probably intended.
```

> Before getting to how a cheap consumer box does the work of a data center, or why

Author: ```suggestion
Before getting into how a cheap consumer box does the work of a data center, or why
```

nobody else had bothered to do it for free, it helps to know what you're actually
paying for when you buy on-chain data. In his words: just parsing and arithmetic.

---

Here's the joke at the center of the whole business: the data was never secret,
because Bitcoin's ledger is public. Anyone can download the entire history of
every transaction since the genesis block, and keep it on a laptop, the same copy
everyone else has.

The crux is that a raw ledger doesn't answer questions. "Are long-term holders
selling?" has a real answer sitting in that data, but getting it means parsing the

> whole chain and doing the arithmetic each time the next block is found.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
whole chain and doing the arithmetic each time a new block is found.
```

<Image
  src="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/drawing.png"
  alt="From the public ledger to the answer: read the blocks, do the arithmetic"
  width={2022}
  height={390}
  className="w-full h-auto"
/>

Glassnode, which did as much as anyone to turn on-chain analysis into a paid
product, built that machinery once, charged for the answers, and called it just

> good business. It's just the most visible of a crowded field, every one of them

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
product, built that machinery once, charged for the answers, and called it "just
good business". It's just the most visible of a crowded field, each one of them
```

fencing the same public data behind a login, a subscription, or a house view on
what's worth showing. None of it, nym21 bet, needed a data center. Only a spare
computer.

There was one piece everyone assumed had to come from outside: the price. The
chain knows when coins move, not what they're worth, so every analytics tool needs
to pull its prices from an exchange. nym21 didn't want to depend on anyone.

> He stumbled on a thing called Simple Steve's price oracle, the proof that

Reviewer 3: Do we have a link/reference to `Simple Steve's price oracle`?

Author: Yes. https://utxo.live/oracle/explain.php

Will add 👍

Bitcoin's dollar price could be inferred from the chain itself, then spent two
weeks hunting for a way to compute an accurate price for every single block.

He found one. The method itself is almost embarrassingly simple. People are

> forever sending round dollar amounts of bitcoin (fifty dollars' worth, a hundred),

Author: ```suggestion
forever sending round dollar amounts of bitcoin,
```

the look and feel of his desktop from the config files up, swapping window
managers, theming every bar and font and keybind, writing his own bash scripts to
do it, and open-sourcing the lot. "Probably the most fun I've had programming to
this day," he says.

<Image
  src="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/linux-rice.png"
  alt="nym21's riced Arch Linux desktop"
  width={1366}
  height={768}
  className="w-full h-auto"
/>

He moved to macOS eventually, after one too many updates broke something he
needed, and says he missed nothing about Linux except exactly that. The fun. (He'd
been through the same thing with mechanical keyboards, open-sourcing the designs
and firmware: "great experience," he says, "absolutely terrible for your wallet.")

Bitcoin itself took a while to land. What finally did it was an analogy: he started
thinking of it as "the Linux of money," and by his own cheerful admission has been
"in the Bitcoin cult ever since."

He'd earned the conversion the hard way. He came to crypto in 2020, at the bottom
of the Covid crash, decided Bitcoin was "grandpa coin" and too expensive, and put
\$100 into alternative coins like EOS and TRX because a subreddit told him to.

> (Classic.) It went so well that he got greedy, believed the \$100k meme a little too

Author: ```suggestion
It went so well that he got greedy, believed the \$100k meme a little too
```

hard, and ended up neck-deep in leveraged BTC and ETH futures that blew up in late
2021. The lesson arrived in the format every Bitcoiner eventually gets: stay
humble, stack sats.

What he kept from all of it was a conviction that would harden into the project:

> I've always believed that if something can be free, it should be. Just as using
> Bitcoin is a right and is free, access to its data should also be free, not gated
> behind entities that treat it as an advanced, proprietary service. In reality,
> it's just parsing and arithmetic.

It started, like most of his projects, with an itch. He was building himself a
portfolio tracker and wanted to add investment strategies. That work pulled him
down into on-chain indicators, a concept he first came across watching explainer

> videos on Glassnode, narrated, as it happened, by an analyst named James Check.

Reviewer 3: Maybe adding link to YT channel or something?

(Remember him.)

The metrics were powerful, but the data behind them was the problem. The handful
of free sources he tried, he says, came with at least one dealbreaker: "heavy rate
limiting, sparse or irregular updates, very limited dataset, unreliable,
unmaintained, etc." The few that actually worked cost a small fortune. An
open-source alternative simply didn't exist.

He could've shrugged and paid up, like everyone else with a node and a begrudging
nod. Instead the price gnawed at him:

> I was left wondering why this was not already built, and how it could be so
> expensive. Ended up with the conclusion that the latter was mainly due to greed.

---

The first public version went out as satonomics, short for "satoshi economics." He

> renamed it kibō, Japanese for hope, which was the most hopeful thing about the

Reviewer 3: This sentence is not totally clear to me.
> which was the most hopeful thing about the project

Author: It's kind of a joke. I'll keep it as is.

project. He'd later swap it for the plainer Bitcoin Research Kit and wrote kibō off
as "too generic."

> Building a thing out of irritation and giving it away for free might be the most

Reviewer 3: Could we also refer to the more-know story of Nicolas Dorier and BitPay? Quite on-point I think.

Author: Yes, and I'll link to https://blog.btcpayserver.org/btcpay-documentary-my-trust-in-you-is-broken/

honest description of open-source work anyone has offered.

For a few years the project was just nym21, funding it himself, known to almost
nobody. In 2024 he put up a Geyser crowdfunding page to buy the server that would
run it. Then James Check found the page.

> Yes, that James Check: the one whose Glassnode videos had taught nym21 the subject

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Yes, the very same James Check whose Glassnode videos had taught nym21 the subject
```

> in the first place. Check didn't know him from anyone. "He somehow got aware of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in the first place. Check "somehow got aware of
```

it," nym21 says, "and helped get it to the finish line."

By his own account, nym21 thanked Check on Nostr, and that thank-you turned into a
running conversation. Over the next two years Check went from donor to self-hoster

> to running the entire on-chain side of CheckOnChain, his own widely-read analytics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
running conversation. Over the next two years Check went from donor to self-hoster,
running the entire on-chain side of CheckOnChain, his own widely-read analytics
```

service, from his own instance of BRK.

Before long it wasn't just Check. CryptoVizArt, the lead research analyst at

> Glassnode itself, saw a dataset BRK had just released (every coin sorted by the

Reviewer 3: Maybe adding an image of this specific dataset?

Author: Not necessary imho.

price at which it last moved) and came to nym21 curious, for his own research,
whether it could be cut finer: the same picture, broken out by how old the coins

> are, a view even Glassnode doesn't offer yet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
are, a view even Glassnode didn't offer.
```

Maybe?

nym21's first instinct was that it would be expensive to compute and store. It
wasn't; the pieces were already there. "The computation was essentially free," he
says, "and storing it, thanks to the age-band structure, was practically free too,
under a gigabyte." That last part matters: everything has to fit on a consumer
machine, so each new dataset is a running trade-off against ease of hosting, a bit
like Bitcoin itself. Glassnode's own lead analyst had started reaching for the
free tool when the paid one came up short.

The clearest proof that BRK had become infrastructure, though, came when a paid
analytics platform turned out to be running on it.

In the spring of 2026, nym21 noticed that Newhedge, a slick paid analytics
platform, was publishing charts that looked an awful lot like his. He could be
certain because of the price oracle: BRK computes prices in its own way, so a chart
built on its data carries a fingerprint, and "it's not possible to have the same

> result" by accident. He said so in public, tagging the company.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
built on its data carries a fingerprint. "It's not possible to have the same
result" by accident, he said in public tagging the company.
```

Newhedge's Alon Shvartsman replied within the half hour. "You're right, we should
have credited BRK," he wrote. "We started using it recently and absolutely love
it... happy to support/sponsor the project, let's talk!" nym21 was not entirely

> mollified: he'd already spotted more charts, and said so, disappointed that the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mollified: he'd already spotted more charts, disappointed that the
```

respective projects; a few months later, Shvartsman would even write a reference
letter backing one of nym21's grant applications.

Weeks later, the recognition climbed past the on-chain crowd. Jameson Lopp, Casa
co-founder and one of the most influential voices in Bitcoin, stumbled upon the
project and told his followers:

<a href="https://xcancel.com/lopp/status/2056409360390041814" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
  <Image
    src="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/lopp-tweet-light.png"
    darkSrc="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/lopp-tweet-dark.png"
    alt="Jameson Lopp's post recommending Bitview and the Bitcoin Research Kit"
    width={1196}
    height={420}
    className="w-full h-auto"
  />
</a>

There's an irony humming under all of this. As the rest of Bitcoin came to depend
on BRK, nym21 was spending most of his energy making sure BRK depended on nothing.

---

"Limiting the use of dependencies has been an on-going quest of mine," he says, and
he means it almost literally. The hardest one to shake was the price itself: he'd
been burned when Coingecko changed its terms under him, and again when exchanges

> rewrote their APIs. The oracle from earlier was the finish line of that fight: once

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
rewrote their APIs. The on-chain oracle was the finish line of that fight: once
```

price could be computed from the chain itself, he never had to ask an exchange for
anything again.

The rest he removed the same way. He keeps the whole thing speaking plain HTTP, so

> it runs behind anything, on anyone's hardware, offline if it has to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
it can run behind anything, on anyone's hardware, offline if it has to.
```
Maybe?

He prunes the Rust crates he leans on as aggressively as he can, wary of the
supply-chain surprises that come from trusting too much code you didn't write, a

> bet that looks smarter every month another npm package turns out to be malware or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
bet that looks smarter every time another npm package turns out to be malware or
```

AI slop.

He treats efficiency the same way. A full mempool.space instance, he found, can eat
around 250% of the blockchain's own size. "I took it as a challenge," he says, and
got BRK's equivalent down to roughly 45%.

> And that equivalent is no toy: BRK reimplements the mempool.space APIs wholesale,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That equivalent is no toy: BRK reimplements the mempool.space APIs wholesale,
```

can't shake.

What comes after BRK is already drawn up, and has been for the better part of a
decade. It's a game: online, competitive, something like a more hardcore Towerfall,
running on a Bitcoin economy. He works on it a few days at a time, once or twice a
year, on purpose, so it can't pull him off BRK.

Which brings us back to the tardigrade. nym21 built BRK the way that animal lives:
on almost nothing, beholden to no one, and hard to kill. Cut its power, its
internet, even its author, and a copy still boots back up on someone else's machine
with two commands and a node.

So when he talks about stepping back, it isn't fatigue. It's a plan. What he wants
instead is simple:

> I sincerely hope that I'll be able to gradually find and move towards other
> sources of funding, donations and sponsorships, and eventually give back to
> OpenSats and free my 'seat' to another motivated developer with great ideas but
> no funding.

---

nym21 has been an OpenSats grantee since December 2024. The grant lets him work on
the [Bitcoin Research Kit][brk] full-time and keep it free to use, verify, and
self-host. If you want to support nym21, tell someone the project exists. (Just

> remember to credit him for the work.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
remember to credit him for the work!)
```

the same rough edges, so the thing would actually be good to run at home.

For all the internet knows, nym21 is the [tardigrade][tardigrade] he uses for an avatar, a more
apt self-portrait than he probably intended.
Before getting into how a cheap consumer box does the work of a data center, or why
nobody else had bothered to do it for free, it helps to know what you're actually
paying for when you buy on-chain data. In his words: just parsing and arithmetic.

---

Here's the joke at the center of the whole business: the data was never secret,
because Bitcoin's ledger is public. Anyone can download the entire history of
every transaction since the genesis block, and keep it on a laptop, the same copy
everyone else has.

The crux is that a raw ledger doesn't answer questions. "Are long-term holders
selling?" has a real answer sitting in that data, but getting it means parsing the
whole chain and doing the arithmetic each time a new block is found.

<Image
  src="/static/images/spotlight/nym21/drawing.png"
  alt="From the public ledger to the answer: read the blocks, do the arithmetic"
  width={2022}
  height={390}
  className="w-full h-auto"
/>

> Glassnode, which did as much as anyone to turn on-chain analysis into a paid

Author: Two things I don't like here:

1. Why throw so much shade on Glassnode
2. These paragraphs read very LLM sloppy

Not sure I'm comfortable with pushing this out as is.

Reviewer 4: Let me help you with the article. Let me know, which paragraphs make you uneasy.

hard, and ended up neck-deep in leveraged BTC and ETH futures that blew up in late
2021. The lesson arrived in the format every Bitcoiner eventually gets: stay
humble, stack sats.

What he kept from all of it was a conviction that would harden into the project:

> I've always believed that if something can be free, it should be. Just as using
> Bitcoin is a right and is free, access to its data should also be free, not gated
> behind entities that treat it as an advanced, proprietary service. In reality,
> it's just parsing and arithmetic.

It started, like most of his projects, with an itch. He was building himself a
portfolio tracker and wanted to add investment strategies. That work pulled him
down into on-chain indicators, a concept he first came across watching explainer
videos on [Glassnode][glassnode-explainer], narrated, as it happened, by an analyst named James Check.
(Remember him.)

The metrics were powerful, but the data behind them was the problem. The handful
of free sources he tried, he says, came with at least one dealbreaker: "heavy rate
limiting, sparse or irregular updates, very limited dataset, unreliable,

> unmaintained, etc." The few that actually worked cost a small fortune. An

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of free sources he tried, he says, came with at least one dealbreaker: heavy rate
limiting, sparse or irregular updates, very limited dataset, unreliable,
unmaintained. The few that actually worked cost a small fortune. An
```

I think we can avoid quotes here. Wdyt?

"Limiting the use of dependencies has been an ongoing quest of mine," he says, and
he means it almost literally. The hardest one to shake was the price itself: he'd
been burned when CoinGecko changed its terms under him, and again when exchanges
rewrote their APIs. The on-chain oracle was the finish line of that fight: once
price could be computed from the chain itself, he never had to ask an exchange for
anything again.

The rest he removed the same way. He keeps the whole thing speaking plain HTTP, so
it can run behind anything, on anyone's hardware, offline if it has to.

He prunes the Rust crates he leans on as aggressively as he can, wary of the
supply-chain surprises that come from trusting too much code you didn't write, a
bet that looks smarter every time another npm package turns out to be malware or
AI slop.

He treats efficiency the same way. A full mempool.space instance, he found, can eat
around 250% of the blockchain's own size. "I took it as a challenge," he says, and
got BRK's equivalent down to roughly 45%.

That equivalent is no toy: BRK reimplements the mempool.space APIs wholesale,
answers millions of requests through them every month, and has made its way into

> Sparrow, one of Bitcoin's most respected wallets, with Cove possibly next. He

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sparrow, one of Bitcoin's most respected wallets, with [Cove][cove-os] possibly next. He
```

> sources of funding, donations and sponsorships, and eventually give back to
> OpenSats and free my 'seat' to another motivated developer with great ideas but
> no funding.

---

Nym21 has been an OpenSats grantee since December 2024. The grant lets him work on
the [Bitcoin Research Kit][brk] full-time and keep it free to use, verify, and
self-host. If you want to support nym21, tell someone the project exists. (Just
remember to credit him for the work!)

Our support for nym21's work was made possible thanks to your generous donations to
[The General Fund][General Fund].

<DonateRecurringButton />

For comments, corrections, or suggestions about our [Spotlight][OpenSats spotlight]
series, please reach out to spotlight@opensats.org.

[brk]: /projects/bitcoinresearchkit
[bitview]: https://bitview.space/
[glassnode]: https://glassnode.com/
[glassnode-explainer]: https://youtu.be/-xFi-VJlotM
[tardigrade]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tardigrade
[steves-oracle]: https://utxo.live/oracle/explain.php
[dorier-trust]: https://blog.btcpayserver.org/btcpay-documentary-my-trust-in-you-is-broken/
[OpenSats spotlight]: /spotlight

> [General Fund]: /funds/general

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[General Fund]: /funds/general
[cove-os]: /projects/cove
```

something he'll only half-own: "There is a sense of obligation towards users and
OpenSats I suppose," he says, "and how I don't want to let either down." Of all the
dependencies he's spent years pruning away, this is the one he never chose, and
can't shake.

What comes after BRK is already drawn up, and has been for the better part of a
decade. It's a game: online, competitive, something like a more hardcore TowerFall,
running on a Bitcoin economy. He works on it a few days at a time, once or twice a
year, on purpose, so it can't pull him off BRK.

Which brings us back to the tardigrade. Nym21 built BRK the way that animal lives:
on almost nothing, beholden to no one, and hard to kill. Cut its power, its
internet, even its author, and a copy still boots back up on someone else's machine
with two commands and a node.

So when he talks about stepping back, it isn't fatigue. It's a plan. What he wants
instead is simple:

> I sincerely hope that I'll be able to gradually find and move towards other
> sources of funding, donations and sponsorships, and eventually give back to
> OpenSats and free my 'seat' to another motivated developer with great ideas but
> no funding.

---

> Nym21 has been an OpenSats grantee since December 2024. The grant lets him work on

Reviewer 4: remember to put this section in italics
